# Frequently Asked Questions

## If a <refentry> should not emit versioning information, what should I do?
Add the `role="noversion"` to its `<refentry>`. Example: `<refentry xml:id="reserved.variables.argc" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" role="noversion//">`

## How do I add a link to a method?
Use `<methodname>Class::Method</methodname>` Note that the case does not matter when adding a link.

## How do I add an external link to the documentation?
All external links are added to `doc-base/entities/global.ent`. Markup looks as follows:
```
<!ENTITY spec.google "http://www.google.com/">
```
Then you can use this syntax in documentation:
```
<link xlink:href="&spec.google;">google spec</link>
```
Be sure the file understands the namespace with `xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"` in the root element.

## I made a change to a file but want to revert this change, how?
To merge a file to the previous state use `svn merge -rHEAD:PREV filename.xml`, then commit your changes.

## I'm about to document a new PHP extension. How should I start?
Change your working directory to `phpdoc/doc-base/scripts/docgen/` and execute following command:
`$ php docgen.php -e simplexml -o outdir`. It creates the skeletons that you edit then commit.
Help is available with following command: `$ php docgen.php -h`.

## I created skeletons that contain a bunch of default text, should I commit it?
No, you can't. Edit files before commit. There are two reasons: translators and the fact that temporary
often becomes permanent, and bogus text is not good.

## Running configure.php ends up segfaulting, what is up?
There are bugs with certain versions of libxml that cause this, so hacks exist to get around it.
To execute the hack, pass in: `$ php configure.php --disable-segfault-error`.
Note: This disables some error checking and beautification but raw errors will be shown.
Note: Usually the problem is a major XML syntax issue.

## In the changelog, which order do the PHP versions go?
Newest PHP versions go above the older ones.

## In the changelog, a change happened in two PHP versions. How do I enter this?
Multiple versions are separated by a comma, with the lesser version first. Example: `<entry>5.2.11, 5.3.1</entry>`

## When adding a note, should I add a title?
Typically titles are useful for notes, but it's not required. Syntax as follows:
```
<note>
 <title>foo</title>
 <para>note contents</para>
</note>
```

## A feature became available in PHP X.Y.Z, how do I document that?
Version information for functions is stored inside `versions.xml` within each extension: `phpdoc/en/extname/version.xml`
Changes to functions, like added parameters, are documented within changelogs for each page
Example text: *Feature X has been available since PHP X.Y.Z*.

## A parameter is optional, how is it documented?
Like normal, except `methodparam` receives the `choice="opt"` attribute, and the `<initializer>` tag is used
to signify the default value. Example syntax:
```
<methodparam choice="opt"><type>bool</type><parameter>httponly</parameter><initializer>false</initializer></methodparam>
```

## Do I need to edit these entities* files?
No, these are auto-generated by the configure process, also do not commit them.
Examples: `entities/file-entities.ent` and `en/reference/foo/entities.bar.xml`

## Is there an online editor?
Yes, just go to https://edit.php.net

## How often is the documentation built?
Weekly, but there is special mirror - https://doc.php.net - where documentation is build every six hours.

## I see example.outputs and example.outputs.similar entities, what's the difference?
The `&example.outputs.similar;` entity is used when the output may differ between executions or machines.
The `&example.outputs;` entity output will always, under all conditions, be the same.

## I need to add a piece of text to three or more pages, how?
Add the snippet to `en/language-snippets.ent` as an entity and link to the entity within the desired pages.
This is done so translators can update one version of this text.

## How do I find missing documentation?
Missing functions (no associated XML files) can be found like so (assuming a doc checkout, and PhD is installed):
```
php doc-base/configure.php
phd --docbook doc-base/.manual.xml --package PHP --format php
php doc-base/scripts/check-missing-docs.php -d output/index.sqlite
```

## What .subversion/config settings should I have set?
```
*.xml = svn:eol-style=native;svn:keywords=Id Rev Revision Date LastChangedDate LastChangedRevision Author LastChangedBy HeadURL URL
```